Systems in Motion releases SIM Voleon version 1.0.0

Oslo, Norway, May 10th 2004

SIM Voleon is a software development system for aiding in writing 3D
graphics application containing so-called "volumetric data", as is
often used in applications targeted at analysis tasks within the oil &
gas industry (e.g. from seismic measurements), in medical imaging (for
data generated by e.g. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Computer
Tomography, or ultrasound equipment), and for many other purposes.

SIM Voleon is an add-on library to Systems in Motion's visualization
platform technology, known as "Coin". Coin is a high-level 3D graphics
library with a C++ Application Programming Interface. Its target
audience is developers of 3D graphics applications worldwide.

SIM Voleon 1.0.0 is now available from www.coin3d.org. The software
has the following major features:

- It is fully portable over the full range of platforms also supported
  by the Coin library, including all versions of Microsoft Windows,
  Apple's Mac OS X, Linux, Sun Solaris, SGI IRIX, and most other UNIX
  variants.

- Integrates smoothly with traditional polygonal 3D data visualization
  from the Coin library, in a manner which is effortless for the
  application programmer.

- Provides interaction possibilities for direct queries in the 3D
  scene on the volumetric data.

- Volumes are visualized by using functionality which is assisted by
  dedicated 3D hardware on most modern graphics cards, namely 2D
  texture mapping.

- Higher quality and better performance visualization is automatically
  done on graphics card which supports hardware assisted 3D texture
  mapping.


"Coin has been received very well by 3D software developers", says
Einar Hübert, CEO of Systems in Motion. "We hope to further increase
Coin's penetration into visualization of scientific and engineering
data with the new SIM Voleon add-on library. This release supports our
stated focus of increased development of Coin and related
technologies."

Licenses and pricing

SIM Voleon is Free Software released publicly under the GNU General
Public License ("GPL"), and is also available for any proprietary use
under a Professional Edition License (the "SIM Voleon PEL"). The price
for becoming a SIM Voleon PEL holder is USD $3,950 per developer per
year. There are no royalties or hidden extra costs.


About Coin

Coin is based on the SGI Open Inventor API. Open Inventor has long since
become the de facto standard graphics library for 3D visualization and
visual simulation software in the scientific and engineering community. It
has proved its worth over a period of more than 10 years, its maturity
contributing to its success as a major building block in thousands of
large-scale engineering applications around the world.

Coin uses scene graph data structures to render real-time graphics
suitable for mostly all kinds of scientific and engineering visualization
applications.

Coin is portable over a wide range of platforms: any UNIX / Linux /
*BSD platform, Microsoft Windows operating systems, and Mac OS X.

Coin is built on the industry-standard OpenGL immediate-mode rendering
library, and adds abstractions for higher-level primitives, provides 3D
interactivity, immensely increases programmer convenience and productivity,
and contains many complex optimization features for fast rendering that
are transparent for the application programmer.

For more information about Coin and source and binary downloads, please
visit www.coin3d.org

About Systems in Motion

Systems in Motion is a global supplier of advanced 3D visualization
software. Our customers range from NASA as a part of Mars-missions, to
Shell deep down in the North Sea, - from car manufacturer Toyota in Japan,
to the US Army simulating tomorrow’s battlefields.

SIM's most recognized product besides Coin is Rational Reducer Professional
3.1. Rational Reducer reduces the number of polygons in 3D models, while
keeping the visual quality, thus reducing the rendering time and file size.

In addition to the products Coin and Rational Reducer, SIM contribute
with custom-made software and consulting services, or complete project
solutions for 3D visualization systems.

For more information on Systems in Motion, please visit www.sim.no

PR Contact for Press:

Oyvind Rideng
Phone: +47 23 27 25 10
Email: rideng@sim.no
Cell phone: +47 90 64 12 81
